This project consisted of designing and developing a mobile app using Android studio. The goal was simply to create a lightweight and simple to use system that allowed users to track their daily weight logs, set goals for themselves, and see the progress in real time. The app also included optional SMS notifications for when a user reaches their goal as a form of positive feedback to celebrate achieving their goal.

For the design and features, there were numerous screens to handle the user requirements we saw as necessary. First was the Login/Create Account screen for security and personalized experience with the app. A dashboard screen after that to show all the important information in one screen for the ease of use on behalf of the user like the weight log and goal display. A screen for adding weight logs, as well as a screen for setting the goal and including the optional SMS notifications. These screens served as a way to streamline all the necessary information needed in a modular way by having each screen serve a different user requirement. The UI Design kept users in mind by using clear labels and consistent buttons, organized data in a neat and appealing way, and ensured that from start to finish all necessary interactions were included. Every choice while designing and building the app was made with the user in mind. 

The process for coding followed a structural and incremental approach, where the design was started first, and then functionality was added in step by step. The general process was building the UI layouts, then creating a database with SQLite, implemented user authentication, added CRUD operations for the weight entries, and integrated SMS permissions. By separating logic into different classes and using consistent naming conventions, the coding was neat and readable. Each feature was tested before moving on to the next thoroughly, and components were reused where possible. This kept the project modular so that future additions would be simple and easy to maintain. 

Testing was done with the Android Emulator, for each component there were through tests. New accounts were created and used to login. Adding, updating, and deleting weight entries, as well as verifying that the data stayed consistent despite closing the app. SMS permissions were tested to grant or deny depending on user input. Testing is crucial, as ensuring the product is error free and works well is the number one priority for users. When there is issues that make it past testing, this can have powerful impacts on the reputation of the app and brand behind it. During testing I was able to find and fix issues like mismatched IDs, layout issues, and logic errors. This revealed the importance of testing, especially when there are multiple components that need to come together to have a functioning and error-free application. 

One of the biggest challenges was integrating multiple features seamlessly into the app like user authentication, database storage, and Recycler view for displaying data. To overcome, I had to build the app in stages and make sure each feature was working b3efore I added the next. Then after adding the feature, regression testing was performed to ensure functionality of previous features were not affected by the new. One example, was reusing the "Add weight" screen for both adding and editing entries, which simplified the design and reduced the need for additional screens. Breaking it into more manageable steps aided with the project being more smooth and not as overwhelming. 

I was very successful in implementing the database and full CRUD functionality, so the app could then store user accounts as well as weight entries. Data was displayed dynamically in a grid and even allowed updating and deleting entries as needed. I was able to also manage implementing the runtime permission handling for SMS to ensure the app behaved regardless of if it was or was not enabled. I believe the project demonstrated my ability to build not only a functional app, but one that has proper design, backend logic, and proper Android system features.
